README.md, before:

WALA Delta
==========

WALA Delta is a [delta debugger](http://www.st.cs.uni-saarland.de/dd/) to help debug JavaScript-processing tools.  Given a JavaScript program `test.js` that is causing a JS-processing tool to crash or time out, it shrinks `test.js` by deleting statements, functions and sub-expressions, looking for a small sub-program of `test.js` which still cause the crash or timeout.  In general, WALA Delta can search for a small input satifying some predicate `P` implemented in JavaScript, allowing for arbitrarily complex tests.

For example, `P` could invoke the WALA pointer analysis on its input program and check whether it times out. If `test.js` is very big, it may be hard to see what is causing the timeout. WALA Delta will find a (sometimes very much) smaller program on which the analysis still times out, making it easier to diagnose the root cause of the scalability problem.

While it is distributed as part of WALA, WALA Delta can be used with any JavaScript-processing tool; you do _not_ need to install [the core WALA libraries](https://github.com/wala/WALA) to use it. All you need to use it is [node.js](http://nodejs.org/) and a number of modules that can be installed through [npm](http://npmjs.org/) (which comes installed with node.js).

Also, note that since JSON is legal JavaScript, WALA Delta can also be used to help debug programs taking JSON as input (by shrinking the input JSON causing the error).

Prerequisites
--------------
- Node.js
- UglifyJS.  __NOTE__: WALA Delta does _not_ work with [UglifyJS2](https://github.com/mishoo/UglifyJS2).  To get an appropriate version of UglifyJS, just run `npm install` in the WALADelta directory, or run `npm install uglify-js@1.3.4` in your home directory.

We've tested WALA Delta on Linux and Mac OS X.

Usage
-----

WALA Delta takes as its input a JavaScript file `f.js` and a predicate `P`. It first copies `f.js` to `<tmp>/minimise_js_0.js`, where `<tmp>` is a fresh directory created under the `tmp_dir` specified in `config.js` (`/tmp` by default).

It then evaluates `P` on `<tmp>/minimise_js_0.js`. If `P` does not hold for this file, it aborts with an error. Otherwise, it reduces the input file by removing a number of statements or expressions, writing the result to `<tmp>/minimise_js_1.js`, and evaluating `P` on this new file. While `P` holds, it keeps reducing the input file in this way until it has found a reduced version `<tmp>/minimise_js_n.js` such that `P` holds on it, but not on any further reduced version. At this point, WALA Delta stops and copies the smallest reduced version to `<tmp>/minimise_js_smallest.js`.

There are several ways for providing a predicate `P`.

At its most general, `P` is an arbitrary Node.js module that exports a function `test`. This function is invoked with the name of the file to test and a continuation `k`. If the predicate holds, `P` should invoke `k` with argument `true`, otherwise with argument `false`. An example of such a predicate is `analysis_timeout.js` (see below on how to use it).

A slightly more convenient (but less general) way of writing a predicate is to implement a Node.js module exporting a string `cmd` and a function `checkResult`. In this case, WALA Delta provides a default implementation of the function `test` that does the following:

  1. It invokes `cmd` as a shell command with the file `fn` to test as its only argument.
  2. It captures the standard output and standard error of the command and writes them into files `fn.stdout` and `fn.stderr`.
  3. It invokes function `checkResult` with four arguments: the `error` code returned from executing `cmd` by the `exec` method [in the Node.js standard library](http://nodejs.org/api/child_process.html#child_process_child_process_exec_command_options_callback); a string containing the complete standard output of the command; a string containing the complete standard error of the command; and the time (in milliseconds) it took the command to finish.
  4. The (boolean) return value of `checkResult` is passed to the continuation.

Finally, you can specify the predicate implicitly through command line arguments: invoking WALA Delta with arguments

> --cmd CMD --timeout N file-to-reduce.js

has the same effect as defining a predicate module exporting `CMD` as its command, and with a `checkResult` function that returns `true` if the command took longer than `N` milliseconds to complete.  Note that if your tool requires other command-line arguments besides the input JavaScript file, you should write a wrapper shell script that takes one argument (the input JS file) and invokes your tool appropriately, and then use that shell script as the `--cmd` argument.

As an example, if you'd like to see why `file-to-reduce.js` is taking longer than 30 seconds to analyze with your tool `myjstool`, you would run:

> node minimise.js --cmd myjstool --timeout 30000 file-to-reduce.js

Invoking WALA Delta with arguments

> --cmd CMD --errmsg ERR file-to-reduce.js

again takes `CMD` to be the command to execute; the predicate is deemed to hold if the command outputs an error message containing string `ERR`.

Finally, you can just specify a command (without error message or timeout), in which case the predicate is deemed to hold if the command exits with an error.

Predicates for WALA JavaScript Analysis
---------------------------------------

Several predicates are provided for use with WALA's call-graph builder for JavaScript:

* `analysis_timeout.js` checks whether the WALA analysis completes within a given timeout.
* `analysis_error.js` checks if the WALA analysis terminates with a particular error message.
* `analysis_reachable.js` checks if the WALA analysis deems a specified method to be reachable.

To use these predicates, first save the `wala_paths-example.js` file as `wala_paths.js` and edit the paths appropriately to point to the root directory of your WALA workspace and the plugins directory of your Eclipse installation.

Variable `classpath` in `wala_runner.js` specifies which JARs to put into the classpath when invoking WALA. It uses the paths specified in `wala_paths.js` and should work out of the box with Eclipse 3.6. For other versions, you'll most likely have to adjust the names of the `org.eclipse.equinox.common`, `org.eclipse.core.runtime`, and `org.eclipse.osgi` JARs.

Once you are done, the WALA predicates can be invoked like this:

> node minimise.js file-to-reduce.js ./analysis_timeout.js

License
-------

WALA Delta is distributed under the Eclipse Public License.  See the LICENSE.txt file in the root directory or <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html">http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html</a>.

Commit message:

Note that JSON inputs should have extension .json

README.md, after:

WALA Delta
==========

WALA Delta is a [delta debugger](http://www.st.cs.uni-saarland.de/dd/) to help debug JavaScript-processing tools.  Given a JavaScript program `test.js` that is causing a JS-processing tool to crash or time out, it shrinks `test.js` by deleting statements, functions and sub-expressions, looking for a small sub-program of `test.js` which still cause the crash or timeout.  In general, WALA Delta can search for a small input satifying some predicate `P` implemented in JavaScript, allowing for arbitrarily complex tests.

For example, `P` could invoke the WALA pointer analysis on its input program and check whether it times out. If `test.js` is very big, it may be hard to see what is causing the timeout. WALA Delta will find a (sometimes very much) smaller program on which the analysis still times out, making it easier to diagnose the root cause of the scalability problem.

While it is distributed as part of WALA, WALA Delta can be used with any JavaScript-processing tool; you do _not_ need to install [the core WALA libraries](https://github.com/wala/WALA) to use it. All you need to use it is [node.js](http://nodejs.org/) and a number of modules that can be installed through [npm](http://npmjs.org/) (which comes installed with node.js).

Also, note that since JSON is legal JavaScript, WALA Delta can also be used to help debug programs taking JSON as input.  For this use case, make sure the input file ends with extension `.json`.  

Prerequisites
--------------
- Node.js
- UglifyJS.  __NOTE__: WALA Delta does _not_ work with [UglifyJS2](https://github.com/mishoo/UglifyJS2).  To get an appropriate version of UglifyJS, just run `npm install` in the WALADelta directory, or run `npm install uglify-js@1.3.4` in your home directory.

We've tested WALA Delta on Linux and Mac OS X.

Usage
-----

WALA Delta takes as its input a JavaScript file `f.js` and a predicate `P`. It first copies `f.js` to `<tmp>/minimise_js_0.js`, where `<tmp>` is a fresh directory created under the `tmp_dir` specified in `config.js` (`/tmp` by default).

It then evaluates `P` on `<tmp>/minimise_js_0.js`. If `P` does not hold for this file, it aborts with an error. Otherwise, it reduces the input file by removing a number of statements or expressions, writing the result to `<tmp>/minimise_js_1.js`, and evaluating `P` on this new file. While `P` holds, it keeps reducing the input file in this way until it has found a reduced version `<tmp>/minimise_js_n.js` such that `P` holds on it, but not on any further reduced version. At this point, WALA Delta stops and copies the smallest reduced version to `<tmp>/minimise_js_smallest.js`.

There are several ways for providing a predicate `P`.

At its most general, `P` is an arbitrary Node.js module that exports a function `test`. This function is invoked with the name of the file to test and a continuation `k`. If the predicate holds, `P` should invoke `k` with argument `true`, otherwise with argument `false`. An example of such a predicate is `analysis_timeout.js` (see below on how to use it).

A slightly more convenient (but less general) way of writing a predicate is to implement a Node.js module exporting a string `cmd` and a function `checkResult`. In this case, WALA Delta provides a default implementation of the function `test` that does the following:

  1. It invokes `cmd` as a shell command with the file `fn` to test as its only argument.
  2. It captures the standard output and standard error of the command and writes them into files `fn.stdout` and `fn.stderr`.
  3. It invokes function `checkResult` with four arguments: the `error` code returned from executing `cmd` by the `exec` method [in the Node.js standard library](http://nodejs.org/api/child_process.html#child_process_child_process_exec_command_options_callback); a string containing the complete standard output of the command; a string containing the complete standard error of the command; and the time (in milliseconds) it took the command to finish.
  4. The (boolean) return value of `checkResult` is passed to the continuation.

Finally, you can specify the predicate implicitly through command line arguments: invoking WALA Delta with arguments

> --cmd CMD --timeout N file-to-reduce.js

has the same effect as defining a predicate module exporting `CMD` as its command, and with a `checkResult` function that returns `true` if the command took longer than `N` milliseconds to complete.  Note that if your tool requires other command-line arguments besides the input JavaScript file, you should write a wrapper shell script that takes one argument (the input JS file) and invokes your tool appropriately, and then use that shell script as the `--cmd` argument.

As an example, if you'd like to see why `file-to-reduce.js` is taking longer than 30 seconds to analyze with your tool `myjstool`, you would run:

> node minimise.js --cmd myjstool --timeout 30000 file-to-reduce.js

Invoking WALA Delta with arguments

> --cmd CMD --errmsg ERR file-to-reduce.js

again takes `CMD` to be the command to execute; the predicate is deemed to hold if the command outputs an error message containing string `ERR`.

Finally, you can just specify a command (without error message or timeout), in which case the predicate is deemed to hold if the command exits with an error.

Predicates for WALA JavaScript Analysis
---------------------------------------

Several predicates are provided for use with WALA's call-graph builder for JavaScript:

* `analysis_timeout.js` checks whether the WALA analysis completes within a given timeout.
* `analysis_error.js` checks if the WALA analysis terminates with a particular error message.
* `analysis_reachable.js` checks if the WALA analysis deems a specified method to be reachable.

To use these predicates, first save the `wala_paths-example.js` file as `wala_paths.js` and edit the paths appropriately to point to the root directory of your WALA workspace and the plugins directory of your Eclipse installation.

Variable `classpath` in `wala_runner.js` specifies which JARs to put into the classpath when invoking WALA. It uses the paths specified in `wala_paths.js` and should work out of the box with Eclipse 3.6. For other versions, you'll most likely have to adjust the names of the `org.eclipse.equinox.common`, `org.eclipse.core.runtime`, and `org.eclipse.osgi` JARs.

Once you are done, the WALA predicates can be invoked like this:

> node minimise.js file-to-reduce.js ./analysis_timeout.js

License
-------

WALA Delta is distributed under the Eclipse Public License.  See the LICENSE.txt file in the root directory or <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html">http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html</a>.
